feat: getting started page (#1486)
contentful/forma-36: packages/forma-36-website/src/content/getting-started.mdx

---
title: 'Getting started'
---

## Installation

### Install components

> Inside your React project directory, install Forma 36 by running either of the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside your React project directory, install Forma 36 by running the following commands:
```

**When using NPM:**

```bash static=true
npm i @contentful/f36-components
```

**When using Yarn:**

```bash static=true
yarn add @contentful/f36-components`
```

#### Installing components as separate packages

> ou can install Forma 36 React components as separate packages if that's what you need for your project. For example, here's how to install just the button:

Reviewer 2: missing first letter — "You can install"

Author: oops. fixed

Reviewer 2: [Suggestion]

Merge the two paragraphs into:
"Although we recommend using `@contentful/f36-components`, you can install Forma 36 React components as separate packages if that's what you need for your project. This is called tree shaking and it will make your bundle contain only components that you actually import and need. For example, here's how to install just the button:"

> You can install Forma 36 React components as separate packages if that's what you need for your project. For example, here's how to install just the button:

Reviewer 2: [Suggestion for merge]

You can install components as separate packages. Tree shaking will make your bundle contain only the components you actually need. For example, here's how to install the button:

**When using NPM:**

```bash static=true
npm i @contentful/f36-button
```

**When using Yarn:**

```bash static=true
yarn add @contentful/f36-button`
```

> The above option is available, but our recommendation is to use the `@contentful/f36-components` package. Tree shaking will make your bundle contain only components that you actually import and need.

Reviewer 2: [Suggestion]
Merge this with the opening paragraph of the section

Reviewer 2: Why do we recommend this? Wouldn't installing components as separate packages — therefore a smaller bundle size — be a good thing?

Author: We recommend using `f36-components` because tree shaking should take care of the bundle size. Even if you install the full package, and then use only one component, tree shaking will make only this one component end up in your bundle. 
But we still want to provide an option to import separate packages, users might have some reasons to do that.

### Install icons

Forma 36 icons are a separate package to reduce the size of the main bundle. If you need to use icons in your project, install them separatly by running either of the following:

**When using NPM:**

```bash static=true
npm i @contentful/f36-icons
```

**When using Yarn:**

```bash static=true
yarn add @contentful/f36-icons`
```

#### Additional learning

> Forma 36 components are build using [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) and [React](https://reactjs.org/) 📚

Reviewer: We should add a recommendation in this section, otherwise we are just making a statement, without any call for action. Something like:

For more information, see the [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) and [React](https://reactjs.org/) official documentation.

---
title: 'Welcome to Forma 36'
---

## Setup

### Install Forma 36 components in the React app

Inside your React project directory, install Forma 36 by running either of the following:

> When using NPM:

Author: hmm, I think in most of the docs that I've seen people refer to npm as NPM.

```bash static=true
npm i @contentful/f36-components
```

When using YARN:

```bash static=true
yarn add @contentful/f36-components`
```

### Install Forma 36 icons in the React app

We decided to make a separate package out of icons and this way we make sure that the main bundle will stay small. If you need icons you would need to install a separate package to use tham. Inside your React project directory, install Forma 36 by running either of the following:

When using NPM:

```bash static=true
npm i @contentful/f36-icons
```

When using YARN:

```bash static=true
yarn add @contentful/f36-icons`
```

> #### Installing Forma 36 components as separate packages

Author: but I will reshuffle, place this below the installation of components. sounds good?

We provide also an option to install separate packages if that's something that you need for your project. For example, you can install just button package:

When using NPM:

```bash static=true
npm i @contentful/f36-button
```

When using YARN:

```bash static=true
yarn add @contentful/f36-button`
```

> The above option is available, but our recommendation is to use the `@contentful/f36-components` package. Three shaking will make your bundle contain only components that you actually import and need.

Author: Correct naming "Tree Shaking"  - for example 👀 here https://webpack.js.org/guides/tree-shaking/

> The above option is available, but our recommendation is to use the `@contentful/f36-components` package. Three shakings will make your bundle contain only components that you actually import and need.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The above option is available, but our recommendation is to use the `@contentful/f36-components` package. Three shaking will make your bundle contain only components that you actually import and need.
```

## How to use Forma 36

As soon as you have `@contentful/f36-components` added to your project, you can go ahead and start using them in your app. For example you might need a [button](./components/button):

```tsx static=true
import * as React from 'react';
import { Button } from '@contentful/f36-components';

const YourComponent = () => (
  <>
    <Button variant="primary">Your button</Button>
  </>
);
```

## Try out Forma 36 in the Codesandbox

<iframe
  src="https://codesandbox.io/embed/contentful-forma-36-template-v4-x-x-k78l0?autoresize=1&fontsize=14&hidenavigation=1&theme=dark"
  style="width:100%; height:500px; border:0; border-radius: 4px; overflow:hidden;"
  title="Contentful - Forma 36 template (v4.x.x)"
  allow="accelerometer; ambient-light-sensor; camera; encrypted-media; geolocation; gyroscope; hid; microphone; midi; payment; usb; vr; xr-spatial-tracking"
  sandbox="allow-forms allow-modals allow-popups allow-presentation allow-same-origin allow-scripts"
></iframe>

> ## How to use GlobalStyles

Author: ok, so I guess maybe we should change all the section titles to follow this convention? We have "how to use Forma 36 components" somewhere before.

In order to control browser default styles, we provide GlobalStyles component. `GlobalStyles` component is using `Global` components from emotion under the hood.
All you need to do is to add `GlobalStyles` component somewhere at the beginning of your project, have a look at the example:

```jsx static=true
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import { GlobalStyles } from '@contentful/f36-components';

import App from './App';

const rootElement = document.getElementById('root');
ReactDOM.render(
  <>
    <GlobalStyles />
    <App />
  </>,
  rootElement,
);
```

> ## How to use Forma 36 when builing Contentful apps

Reviewer 2: Change to

"Building Contentful apps using Forma 36 React components"

Author: Maybe just "Building Contentful apps using Forma 36" ?

> Apps are packages that simplify customization and integration by modifying your space in Contentful. An app can help adapt Contentful to individual business processes and integrate with other services.

Reviewer 2: This sounds like several value propositions for the App framework all in one paragraph.

Reviewer 2: [suggestion]

Rephrase this whole section to:
Apps are packages that simplify customization and integration by modifying your space in Contentful. An app can help adapt Contentful to individual business processes and integrate with other services.

From small field editor improvements to deeply integrated full-page applications, Forma 36 is here to help you efficiently build apps with the [Contentful App Framework](https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/extensibility/app-framework/).

You are able to extend the capabilities of Contentful to meet your specific needs. Apps empower creators to build efficient workflows and adapt to the needs of the business.

Using apps, a huge variety of enhancements to the Contentful web app are possible. From small field editor improvements to deeply integrated full-page applications, the App Framework makes customizing the web app effortless.
Forma 36 is here to help you build great, consistent Apps that will extend your experience in Contentful webapp.
Learn more about [App framework](https://www.contentful.com/developers/docs/extensibility/app-framework/)

## Additional learning

> Forma 36 components are build using [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) and [React](https://reactjs.org/) 📚

Reviewer 2: [suggestion]

move this paragraph under "Installation"
